So my big advice now that's changed is basically the change that Valve added was they did a machine learning algorithm in the first two days. I think genre is the number one choice like the minute you pick your genre you've decided your marketing fate. >> I'm just curious to know has there been some sort of let's say wishless inflation over the past months or years? >> In fact anything I'd say it's deflated. >> Oh okay. >> People always want bad news. People want bad news. Oh it's inflation. One of the the best entry-level games I would recommend indies try if they're just like, "Hey, I just need a quick game." And then you just smear blood on everything and your art's pretty good to go. I'm only kidding a little bit. Don't at me. Hello and welcome. I'm your code. All right. So, in this video, we're going to learn the latest Steam game marketing tips. We're going to learn what has changed in the past few months. And thankfully, I've got a really special guest with me today to help us with that because honestly for me, I haven't really kept up too much. I mean, this year to me has been pretty crazy. I mean, I lost both my dogs in like a two-month time span. So, yeah, in terms of work, things have been quite tricky. So, I haven't really kept up with with the news with Steam with Steam game marketing. So, yep, it's really great to have Chris over here uh to both teach us and teach me as well what exactly has changed. So, just briefly, hey Chris, uh welcome back. Uh just tell people what exactly do you do, who you are, why they shouldn't listen to you, how much experience you have. So, yeah, go ahead. >> Hey everybody, good to see you again. Thank you Mr. Monkey for having me back. Um, I'm Chris Sukowski. I write for the website how to market aame.com. It's a site and we just talk only about how to market your game on Steam. It's it's every week a blog comes out and I uh teach people all about Steam marketing. So, I'm here and yeah, I'm uh I've been doing this for a number of years. We're going to talk about Steam marketing. So, uh whatever we can do to get your game more visibility. So, I'm here to answer any questions and teach you the latest. >> All right. So, yeah. So, that's awesome. And yeah, I'm definitely very interested in the latest because actually just recently I made an interesting video. I made an interesting short where I was basically talking about the first few games that I made when I first went on to see him, which was back in 2013. And I was basically talking about in that short how if I were to publish that exact same game nowadays using the exact same quoteunquote marketing strategy, which back then I didn't really do much marketing. So if I were to do that, that game would definitely not find the level of success that it had back then just because Steam has changed so much, marketing has changed so much. So yeah, it definitely pays to be up to date with what exactly are the latest marketing tips, the latest Steam marketing meta. So yeah, I'm definitely curious to know. So yeah, go ahead. What exactly has changed in the past few months? Because I've heard there have been quite a lot of changes. So what has changed? What are the best ways nowadays? >> It hasn't changed as much in the last, I would say, five years. Uh but the thing that's kind of happened is it's it's become legitimate. So before we figured out back in about 2020 that if you got a demo up and you entered into festivals, you did pretty good. That was a good marketing strategy. But it kind of felt like we were on the periphery. We were doing weird hacks to get our visibility for our demos. We do these things called like the prologue trick, all this stuff. But what Valve did was they were like, "Oh, I see you indies doing some weird stuff. Why don't we just make it legitimate since that seems to be working for you?" So I got to give credit to Evalve. They're listening. They've got their spies out watching you all, seeing what you're doing, whether you've been naughty or nice. And uh what they added basically is they legitimize demos. And so before I'd say the one big change is before uh you know in the 20 early 2020s, we're now on the back half of the 2020s. I would just say throw that demo up, get it up, do whatever you want. But now the big change is you can get a ton of visibility when you launch your demo. So, my big advice now that's changed is basically be careful with your demo because when you launch it, you can do something called emailing your wish listers. You get this button when you launch your demo for the first time. And when you push that, you can email everybody who's wishlisted your game before. And if you get enough people to play your demo within a short period of time, in my kind of estimate based on looking at the data, it's about 90 concurrent users. I don't know exactly, but if you get about 90 concurrent users, you might be able to get on this thing called new and trending free. And you can check it now on Steam. Just go on Steam, scroll down to where it says popular, upcoming, new and trending, and there's a new tab on the end called trending free. You click that, demos show up there, and that's a huge visibility boost. It's free visibility like in the middle of your marketing period. So, be very careful. One of the things I I recommend now with this new change is be very careful and don't just launch a demo willy-nilly. Don't launch your Steam page and your demo together because you got to have a plan to get that demo out with as much oomph as possible. And so really start the big change is start thinking about how am I going to launch my demo and what marketing need do I need to do around it to get that boost. >> Okay, great. So yeah, interesting. And uh I believe I've heard the same thing related to the uh coming soon page where previously the advice was basically just get it out as soon as possible just so you have more time to gather wish lists. But nowadays, I believe I've seen one of your posts that you did research on basically the power of the discovery queue and how as soon as you make a uh coming soon page visible. Apparently that pushes it on discovery Q. So nowadays, basically previously just set it up as soon as possible. Whereas nowadays, would you recommend the coming soon page actually looks quite decent before you publish it. So you potentially get that benefit of the discovery queue. >> I write a lot of stuff, so sometimes it can be confusing. And this is uh maybe I should write less. Maybe that's what it is. I think some of the wires get crossed when I write this much. So, I still think you should get your Steam page up as early as possible. Now, what does as possible mean? So, let me define and this is where I've always said early early. And so, some people would go so early there was like nothing on their Steam page and it looked awful. So, here is my minimum bar. I still everybody I still think you should push as hard as you can to get that Steam page up early because the more time you have up the more wish list you can get and not they don't get old. Don't worry about that. Don't ask me about that. They don't get old. I'll tell you that the wish list don't get old. But here's my minimum bar of what means ready. Number one, you know the genre. You're like, I am definitely an idol game. Definitely. It's not going to change. They're not like, "Well, maybe I'll be a 4X game." No, no, no, no. You definitely know the genre of your game. You have a capsule, a nice looking capsule that you paid for. Hire an artist to do it. Don't do it yourself. Okay? Don't get your uncle to do it for you. Definitely make an effort to have somebody make it for you. Got to look good. Make a trailer. You have to have enough gameplay to have 30 seconds of gameplay. Really, folks, this is the biggest mistake I see is people just go without a trailer. You need that trailer because you can get extra visibility when you shop that trailer around on YouTube. Putting a good trailer up on YouTube can get you visibility when you kick off your page. Uh so definitely get a trailer. Don't go without a trailer, please, folks. And then uh you definitely have enough art, not only for 30 seconds of gameplay, but what I call three environments, three biomes. You just want to show a variety. If you only have one piece of artwork that you're just basically taking screenshots of that same piece of artwork, >> we can tell. The Steam shoppers can tell. Everybody knows that you've just got like one asset pack and you're just taking a picture in several different poses on that asset pack. You don't want to do that. You need to show Steam and the Steam audience that you are legit, that you've got a full game, that you're deep in development, even if you're not. And then when you get all those things together, then I think it's time for the Steam page. Okay? then you can put it up so it looks legitimate. Now, I still think you should push early for that. And so, when I say 30 seconds of gameplay, you can fake it, you know, like in other words, you don't have to make the AI for every single boss. You can just like run up to the boss and maybe the boss is still doing like the same chopping animation, but when you cut it real fast, nobody can tell that you haven't programmed the full AI, the full system behind it. And maybe you're just faking stuff. You're making numbers pop up even though there's no code behind it. You're just getting it ready so that it looks legitimate in a fast cut 30-se secondond trailer. So that's the balance that you have to do. And that's the the kind of art of making games and why you should make a lot is you start to learn, h this is enough. I can fake my way to get that trailer out to make it look legit and to kind of patch things and and and bend the corners so that it looks legit before it's fully legit. I think the biggest problem is people go either too fast, they don't have a trailer, or they wait too long, and they miss out on a whole bunch of opportunities. So, >> it's a fine line to balance, right? And I know it's not easy to say, "Oh, yes, this is ready." But that comes with experience. So, be sure to make more games, everybody. >> Right. Yeah. That that is definitely the advice I always give. Always make more games. I mean, that is why personally I'm a big fan of small games. I mean, if you have only like two years to work on something, I much prefer you make four year four games in those two years as opposed to just one massive game in those two years. I think personally I think you gain quite a lot of experience by working on more projects as opposed to just one really massive project and yeah by going multiple times through the release stage through the marketing stage you definitely do get better at that. I mean marketing and learning about steam steam game marketing all those things those are definitely skills that you can acquire and in more experience it does become much easier. So yeah that is definitely also the advice that I would give. That is awesome. Yeah. >> Yeah. I was talking to John Romero. I wasn't just talking to him like I asked him at a at a Q&A he had he had the GC talk. John Romero made Doom, made Wolfenstein, and he put out a demo that was like, you know, 10 levels, but this is back in the 90s when it was a sharewware demo. And I asked him, I was like, "How did you know how much to put in the demo?" And he said, "We just knew. We made a bunch of games. We just knew what a good demo felt like." And that's what releasing a lot of games does is it gives you that confidence. Just say, "I just know. I just know." And it's you just get that that confidence out there. When it's your first game, you don't know anything. So, you just got to release a lot more and just learn those little intangible skills that you just can't read off a blog post like I write or a YouTube video. You just got to do it and then you're just going to you can later tell somebody else who's asking you, you just know. Trust me, you'll just know. >> Yeah. So, on the coming soon page, so basically there's that fun line. It has to be good enough to attract attention, but early enough that you have enough time to get the wish list. So, what about the timing for the demo? Would you suggest that literally as soon as something like a Steam NextFest, like one week before, one month before? What exactly is the timing on that one? >> Yeah. Um, okay. So, do not do it one week before NextFest. >> Okay. >> So, you want Okay. So, here's here's kind of what I recommend, too, because with the new change, you want to get as much visibility on the demo so that you move up this chart that that trending free chart. And again, we're not entirely sure of how much visibility you need. you need like 90 concurrent users thereabouts. And that's a lot. That is not easy to do. And one of the ways you do it is this is the new algorithm stuff. You can push this button when you launch your demo for the first time. And only if you've launched your demo before this. If you launched your demo two years ago and it's been out, you can't do this again. I'm sorry. There's just nothing we can do. You don't know what the future's going to hold. Uh so uh this is the Steam feature. Everybody who wishlisted it gets an email that says a demo for a game you've wishlisted has shown up. you know, it's appeared. And so if you go in like let's say you launch your Steam page and then you immediately go to a demo, you don't you haven't built up many wish lists. So the people who receive that email that says a demo is ready, it's like 10 people or something. Okay. And there's one fine point I got to go back just a little bit. Uh when you mentioned the discovery queue, I just want to clarify something. When you launch your Steam page, you don't there's no widget on Steam that gives you free visibility. That's that's one thing that I've I've written about and people think that they've misinterpreted something because I I give benchmarks. I I do a benchmark site, how toarketame.com/benchmarks, and I I just tested to see how many wish lists you get when you launch your Steam page, and some games get a lot of wish lists. And so, a lot of people thought, oh, it's there's some, you know, you get free visibility when you launch on on Steam. You do not when you launch your Steam page. There's no widget that gives free visibility. It's just that when you launch a Steam page and you put out a trailer on YouTube by saying announce trailer with a lot of, you know, fanfare, like you do some marketing to get people to see this trailer, that is an event that gives you wish list and visibility. But there's nothing on Steam that just having a Steam page announced gives you visibility. It's it's all that outside work that you have to do to push people to wishlist the game. So that's just a clarifica clarification. So when you launch your Steam page, you get wish lists and then you do other marketing activity to get wish lists. So that when you launch your demo, then that converts into visits and players playing your free demo and that's what converts to get you onto that new and trending free. Okay, so let's do the math here. You're like, okay, I need Steam page launch doesn't definitely give me it. It doesn't always guarantee wish list and the demo is in my opinion the best way to get wish list. So how do I get wish list before the demo? I recommend you do play tests. You can do betas and play tests to make sure your demo is perfect. And launching a play test, launching a demo or I mean launching a beta, let me clarify this. Launching a play test, launching a demo does not count against that one time only showing up in new and trending. It's it's not a onetime thing. So I say just do as many play tests as you can. And I've seen um games they get huge wish list spikes when they do their play test, which is a feature built into Steam. So I highly recommend you do some play test. It also makes sure your demo is good because a lot of people their first demo sucks. And so your play test is really the same code as your demo. And so you're just making sure that people play through the whole thing, that people aren't getting stuck, that there's no bugs, nothing like that. And then you go and launch your demo. Okay? And you push that wish list button, you do a bunch of fanfare, and you get it there. That's the big announce. Now, here's the problem, though. That new and trending free list, it is ranked. In other words, like there's all the games. There's only 10 spots on there. Go click on it. Go over to Steam, everybody. Keep this video up, but go over to Steam. You can see there's only 10 and so it's ranked by uh release date and stuff. Now, if you if you're uh people who playing it, you drop off the list. So, you want a time when there's not as much competition. And what does everybody do right before Steam Nextfest? They launch their demo for the first time. So, you are competing with all these people for those 10 slots like the week or two weeks before Steam NextFest. Beat the rush, folks. The best time is probably a couple weeks after NextFest because everybody who has a demo ready probably tried to barge in on NextFest. I see this as a huge mistake. So many people try and launch their demo just weeks before NextFest. You get crowded out. You don't get that free visibility on the the trending free. You you rush to get that demo. You haven't tested it because you haven't done all the play tests and stuff. So, I say launch it months, years before NextFest. You keep that demo up. Keep gathering wish list. And then when you get into NextFest, you have a perfect demo, the best demo. And we can later go into Steam NextFest if you want. But that is the basic strategy for how to get your demo out. >> All right. Interesting. Yeah. So, and NextFest was also, as far as I know, has changed a little bit recently, whereas previously it was extremely important to get a ton of wish list before so that you basically when the when NextFest starts, you start at the very top. Whereas recently, I think Valve has made a change to make it a little bit more of a living playfield. But there's still a benefit of course of gathering more wish list, more players before then. So what exactly has changed in like I believe that lasts for like the first two days and then everything basically goes into the usual chart as normal. So is the I guess I guess since if people if the wish list before still matter I guess because that change doesn't necessarily matter too much. Although I assume that it does matter since like you're saying it matters to have the concurrent views concurrent players as high as possible before that. So how how has that difference changed or has it really not changed too much? >> Okay, here's the big change and and this kind of again I write a lot so this can get confusing. Okay, so some people misquote this one. So the change that Valve added was they did a machine learning algorithm in the first two days where they're kind of the the Steam algorithm is kind of agnostic on the Steam NextFest front page basically. And you'll see it when you scroll down on the first two days of Steam Nexus, you're going to see some weird games, some hobbyist games, some games that most people never see, okay? So, it looks weird. And so, there's tons of crazy games. And what they're doing is a machine learning algorithm just to say like, what are people interacting with? And then even Valve doesn't know. I asked them in a in a in a conference. I was like, well, what are you looking for to to judge whether a game's good or not? And they're like, we don't even know. It's just a machine learning algorithm. So, I don't know if it's clickthroughs, concurrent plays on the demo. So, it's all kinds of things. They throw them into a soup and on the third day, they pull the list of what they show on the front page. They don't show all the games. They look for the games that are just like hobbyist games and they smother those. They never get seen again. Now, a lot of people misinterpret this as saying, well, you don't need wish lists anymore to go next. You can just drop your game in there and if your game's good, it's going to rise up the charts and everything good. That is not it. The way I like to think of it is those first two days are a guaranteed baseline. That does not mean everybody gets the same amount of visibility. It just means you have a guaranteed baseline. In the previous Nexvests, if you had a hobbyist game, never been seen, you would get zero visibility because you would just be smothered. Now you get some visibility, not a lot, but you would get some. And I want to be very clear on the numbers here. Let me let me I'm going to state it clearly so that if anybody misunderstands, we can just link to this video. It not all games get the same visibility. That's the big mistake. It's not like every single game, no matter what, gets 100,000 views on Steam Nexus. That is not it at all. You get a guaranteed baseline of visibility in the first two days and then they call. And so what I did was last Nexfest, well the one in February, I um I put out a survey for people to say, "How many wish lists did you have going into NextFest and how many wish list did you get out of it?" And if you go to my blog, how toarketame.com and just search uh February NextFest or something like that. Oh, actually it's in benchmarks. How many It's a benchmark thing on how toarketame.com/benchmarks. Scroll down to the one for NextFest. And I did this and I was like, how many wish lists do I have going into nextfest and how many do I earn? I did a splatter chart and what you'll see is it's still the case where if you go in with a lot of wish lists, you get many more wish lists. Okay? So, you still want to do the last next fest before you launch because the more wish list you have going in, the more wish list you're going to get. And there's lots of reasons why. And it's not just the guaranteed machine learning algorithm. There's other things that cause this. Um, but my bare recommendation, and there's no algorithm reason for this, it's just just looking at the trends, looking at the correlations. I know it's not causation, but I find that games that go in with 2,000 wish lists or more tend to do better on NextFest. Okay? Again, I don't Anytime I say a number, people over interpret it. I'm just saying that it's like in general, games with 2,000 or more wish lists tend to do better. they just have more opportunity to kind of move up the charts, I guess. I don't know. And part of that is there are widgets on Steam like it'll say recommend it to you because it's on your wish list. So, you're going to get a little bit more visibility there at NextFest. All these things. So, there's other things like if you're really high and we're talking like 50,000 wish lists on up, there are the trending charts on Steam Nexus. Now, Valve de prioritized them a little bit. They put them on kind of in a back corner, but that still drives a ton of visibility where it's like most played demos, most wishlisted, most uh wish lists earned in the previous couple days, those still favor the games that have like 50,000 to 100,000 wish lists and more. So, um if you can still wait until the last next where you launch because having more wish lists gets you more wish lists. >> Okay, great. And just in terms of numbers, uh, since personal personally I love numbers. I love having something to aim for. And I I'm just curious to know, has there been some sort of, let's say, wishless inflation over the past months or years? Because I remember reading, so the number that has been around for the past few years has been around 7,000 10,000 wish lists. That's roughly what you need in order to launch, get on the popular uh, new release list and so on. Has that number changed or has it stayed around there? 7 to 10,000 relatively stable? In fact, anything I'd say it's deflated. >> Oh, >> people always always want bad news. People want bad news. Oh, that's inflation. But, um, I used to always just say 7 to 10,000. I don't know. Just it was a general number. But, I've seen lots of games. Um, and the reason we say don't launch until you have 7 to 10,000 is because there's this thing called um, popular upcoming and typically you show up on there if you had 7 to 10,000. But a lot of times I've seen lots of games and they'll come to me and they're like, "Chris, I got on to popular upcoming with 5,000 wish lists." Wow. >> So, I've even seen games down to 5,000 wish lists get on there. Now, it's harder because you're competing against other games. >> Um, but 5,000 wish list can get you on there if you time it right. Now, in the other thing about inflation, I don't see it. Now, here's here's why I think people say inflation is because you'll see a Reddit post. And don't always trust Reddit, folks. Don't trust Reddit. I know you love Reddit, but just be careful. Get that grain of salt. put it on your tongue before anytime you go to Reddit. So the reason people think there's wish list inflation is because we are good at getting wish lists. We like through my writing through other people who have written blogs like game discover co or Ryan Wrigley's um news substack newsletter and the words just kind of getting out of how do you actually do this? How do you get wish lists? I think there's a lot of games that maybe weren't as fun and they are now able to get wish lists and so they're going to have a lower conversion rate so they can, you know, if you play your cards right and your game looks pretty good, you can get up to 100,000 wish lists. But when you play it, you're like, "This game is not fun." You know, it's like these controls are janky. And so those people will go post on Reddit, a wish list inflation. I got 100,000 wish list and they converted like crap, you know? And then you're like, well, the game's not that fun. And if you look at the reviews for those games, you're like, oh man, this game is not fun. And the other thing that happens is sometimes people get to 100,000 wish lists, but they've had their game out for like 10 years trying to collect wishes. Like they haven't launched, they just had a Steam page up for 10 years and they collected 100,000 wish lists. But if you do ma do the math, I always whenever somebody says, "Oh, I launched with this many wish lists." I then divide it by the number of years their Steam page has been live. And then if you look at it, if you've been up for 10 years and you have 10,000 100,000 wish lists, that's 10,000 per year. And earning 10,000 wish lists in a year is is okay, but it's not like, oh my god, 100,000 wish lists. So, it's it you have to look at the full story before you go wish list inflation. Um, the other thing that kind of matters because I've seen games get 200,000 wish lists in like a month because their game just has that viral lift. And so that's why I'm comparing a game that took 10 years to get to 100,000 versus a game that's so exciting, everybody's anticipating it so much. It got 100,000 in a month, which is possible. Uh, it's not likely, but it's possible. And so, anytime somebody's really mad, I always just look on Reddit and I say, if you see a Reddit post, we're like, "Wishlists are overrated. it's it's inflation. Do a couple things. Look at their Steam page. See how long their Steam page has been live and then read the reviews of the games because wish lists are not a guarantee. It is not like money in the bank. It is basically saying potential. And so if you look at the reviews, sometimes you'll see the reviews and they're like, "This game's 1 hour long. I thought it was longer. I thought it was this genre, but it's actually this genre." If you see those kind of reviews where they're like, "Actually, the game's not very deep." Those are all signs that a lot of people thought they liked it. They saw the screenshots, they saw the trailer, and it looked good, but when it came time to play it, they're like, "Ah, this just isn't there." So, I think that is why people perceive that there's wish list inflation. So, but I've seen plenty of games even recently get lots of wish list. We're talking 30,000 wish lists and convert on those wish lists and sell very well. I just do not think that there's wish list inflation. >> Okay. I mean, that's that's great to know. And I believe there's another place where there's also been some uh let's say positive deflation which is on daily deals where previously as far as I know you had to be an insane seller in order to get invited to a daily deal. But recently I believe you wrote a post about how some games with relatively few copy sold relatively few reviews have managed to get a daily deal. So can you talk about that because that sounds like a very good thing. >> Yeah. So, just to define it, a daily deal is if you go on Steam and everybody on a separate tab, don't let's not close this YouTube, right? Um, go open Steam and scroll down, there's a little section. It's called special offers. And, uh, that is prime real estate. That is front page Steam. So, what happens is the games in there are selling lots. Okay? And so, what you do is it used to be there were two daily deals per day. In other words, that little widget had two little slots in it and said daily deal. And to get those, you had to be a big seller. And I'm talking like $250,000 of gross revenue pre- Steam cut. If you earn that much, you would have a buddy over who worked at Valve and they would and you would say, "Hey, Valve, can I get in there?" And they would look and they would say, "Yeah, you're scheduled for, you know, August 4th. You can have a daily deal." And then you would show up in there. It was hard. You had to know somebody and you had to have a lot of money earned. And what Valve has done, there were only two of them. So what Valve has done is they've known that's a popular program. So they've expanded it. They now do six per day. Six daily deals. They've they've tripled the number of games they can get a daily deal in any day. and they've added this convenient widget which if you've made enough money in their system one day you'll just wake up and there'll be a little widget that you can that you have access to and it says schedule your daily deal. I think you also get an email for it. It's like you've been selected for a potential daily deal and then you get this little calendar widget and you can pick when you want your game to show up in there. And what I've seen, I've done the analysis. I've seen that games as low as like $100,000 are getting notified of this thing because remember they've they've expanded the number per day that can show up in this widget, the special deals widget. And so you can schedule it. So that's see they're lowering the bar for what it takes to get into there. Now, they don't make as much money as they used to. They They used to be able to get a daily deal and it would be like 50 $70,000. Now, I'm seeing more daily deals are earning games. If you show up in a daily deal, like 10,000 to 30,000 somewhere in that amount. But that's egalitarianism, right? We're sharing the wealth among each other. So, if there's more people earning more, we're just taking away from the hot upper class and we're kind of spreading it around a little bit so more of the mid-tier games can get access to some of that money. It's not going to solve the problems that we all have, but that's kind of what I'm seeing. Um, the other thing that what I recommend, which uh, and I've done this analysis, if you look on um, my how tomarketagame.com and you look for daily deals, just search in the search box daily deals, I've done some graphs and some analysis and we can link to them below. Um, Mr. Monkey here. Um, what we can do is look at that and if you I I've done some analysis of how many reviews did games have before they got a daily deal because I scrape Steam every day to collect what games got daily deals. And I find that there are sometimes games that get as few as a hundred reviews getting daily deals. Okay? And so what you can do is I would recommend anybody if you've got a hundred reviews and it's been within a year. Now, if you've got a 100red reviews and it's been six years since you launched your game, this isn't going to work. But if you've gotten about 100 reviews in a year, I would just email support and you go into Steamworks and there's a support bar, open support. Just say, "Hey, I'm about to do an update." And always couch it as an update. Say, "I'm going to do an update. Can I do a daily deal?" I'm I'm going to do an update in, let's just say, August. Give them lots of time. I would even say like, "Hey, I'm going to do it in in December. I'm going to do an update in December. Would it be possible to get a daily deal? And then you wait back. And sometimes, not every time, somebody will be like, you know, your game look pretty fun. I see you're updating it. You're a good dev. Why not? And they'll give you access to that calendar to tool. They'll say, "We activated the calendar tool." And then you go into Steamworks and you can pick that date. So, if you're nice, don't be a jerk, and you're doing an update to your game and you're a good dev who's done lots of updates and people are liking it, it's not mixed, you might be eligible for a daily deal. Now, what I found is even if you are not, see, if you've got lots and lots of reviews, your daily deal is going to earn you lots and lots of money. If you barely got a 100red reviews, there's probably a reason why that didn't convert as well. So, when you do a daily deal, it's going to be on the lower side. You're going to be lower on the 10,000 to 7,000. Games just have a spirit. And if it was hard to get to a daily deal, you aren't going to earn much in the daily deal. I'm just going to be honest, folks. So, uh that's one of those cases where Steam has just kind of allowed more things to happen. >> Yeah. And that's definitely a great tip. I mean, if you don't get it automatically, then yeah, uh ask support and who knows, you might get it, maybe you won't, but I mean, you don't lose anything by asking. So, yeah, that's a that's a great thing. And the fact that Steam has a lot more daily deals. Personally, I think that's a great thing. I mean, I think that's similar to how Steam was back then, how like 15 years ago, you had to know someone inside Valve to even get inside the seam. And if you got inside the seam, you would instantly make millions of dollars. Whereas nowadays, anyone can get on Steam. So, it's much more of a level playing field. So, the people that get on Steam no longer make millions of dollars, but there's more people making a more decent living. So, I really like that Valve is going with that approach. Instead of keeping it just just a handful of people make tons of money, spread it around a little bit. So hopefully more indie devs have chance to find a decent amount of success. So I think that's a very good thing. Yeah. Uh so just a general question which is I did a video a while ago which was comparing uh two games that did very different results. One was called Supermark Simulator which was a massive hit and the other one was called Bionic Bay which did not do that well despite looking visually very interesting. And on that video, I basically did my own analysis based on my own marketing knowledge, which I learned from mostly from reading your blog post. And on there, basically my my my uh big conclusion as to difference between the outcomes of those two games. One made $28 million, the other one made like 200,000. Basically difference is the genres. One is on the super hot uh simulator genre. The other one is a puzzle platform which doesn't tend to do very well on Steam. So can you speak a little bit about genre? So what exact what are the best genres on seam and what are the genres to avoid? >> Yeah. Um I I think genre is the number one choice. Like the minute you pick your genre, you've decided your marketing fate. Like all this stuff that I talk about daily deals, wish list, content creators, Steam Nexfest, it doesn't matter. The big I mean it matters, but the biggest decision is the genre you pick. And it's like even if you're like Chris, I tried everything you said, but my game didn't sell well. and then it's a puzzle platformer or 2D platformer. They're just I'm sorry folks. It is it is so hard to do well with those type of games. Um so this is a thing that people often say well they'll do the oh man I uh you know changes all the time. Steam changes all the time. And my thing is it doesn't actually change. Genre does not change as fast as everybody thinks it does when you look at the bigger view of things. Um, the piece, this is a big thing that people have to learn. And I think this kind of smacks people in the face who came from consoles. Like if you played Nintendo, and I find a lot of indie developers, they fell in love with video games and decided to become a game developer because they love Nintendo. I did. I I've got every single Nintendo system. They're they're right over there in the closet. um the they the type of game that does well with Nintendo and on Nintendo's consoles is almost completely different than the type of game that does well on Steam. So people grew up playing Nintendo games and they're like, "Oh, I'm going to make a Nintendo type game for Steam." And they're smacked in the face and they say, "Ah, my childhood, the games that were well in my childhood don't work well on Steam." That's not true. It's a it's a it's a culture change that you just went through. It wasn't a timing change. it was just there's a culture of Steam games and there's a culture of console mostly Nintendo games, totally different cultures. Um, and if you look go back in time, the big hit PC games have always been these kind of topdown building games where you like Sim City or the Sims, all these kind of simulation games, Flight Simulator from uh Microsoft back all the way in the 90s and stuff. These type of what I call craftybuildy games have always been popular on PC on PC and not so popular on consoles. On the the games the top games of consoles have always been like The Legend of Zelda, these kind of games where you're an adventurer and you go off on this linear adventure and yeah, there's a little bit of exploration, but you're very much on a path or or Mario or these kind of uh linear narrative games. on console or on the PC side, it has always been just like a sandbox where it's like here's some parts, you go assemble it however you want. There's no real it's civilization, it's um uh you know um the Sims, like I said, these simulation games. And so these type of games just do well on Steam. And I think a lot of devs fall on their face and they learn real fast the types of games that do well on Steam are not the type of games that do well on Nintendo or you know Sony or or Xbox as much. And so uh that's my big recommendation is just pay attention to this. And the the type of games again this doesn't change very much if you look at the bigger scale. I call them crafty games. Craftybuildy strategy simulation games. And they're basically games where the content is derived by the metadata of the game and interactions between the pieces. And the way I think I always like recommend it is if you haven't played Minecraft, play Minecraft. Um, it's all about Minecraft. The there's not really a story. I mean, it kind of is the ender dragon and some villagers and stuff, but most of it is just like combining objects in any way you possibly can. and you upgrade uh tools and you craft things together and you upgrade items to get bigger items and then this item fuses with this item and then five of these fused items fuse into a third item. That kind of meta progression is what I mean by this metadata driven content and um those are the type of games that do well on Steam because we as indies need to make 30 hours worth of content. I just find that Steam players think a game is big enough when it has about 30 hours of content. And we cannot afford to make 30 hours of linear content because you need to make so many levels, so much stuff, so many bosses. But if you have a meta progression where it's driven by, hey, you need to collect five stone to craft it into a stone axe and then the stone axe can mine gold and then gold can be mined to craft this thing. that kind of metag progression, you can make 30 hours worth of content much easier on indie scale budgets. Okay? And so to that's the theory behind it. Let me go straight into specifics. The type of games that do well on Steam, one of the the best entry-level games I would recommend indies try if they're just like, "Hey, I just need a quick game." Learn Steam. Like I say, quick games out there. Idle games. Right now, Idol Games I consider in the craftability meta genre, but they're they're pretty hot right now. This could change. This one could change. I could see people getting overloaded on this one. But there are games where it's just like a number goes up and you can combine objects to make the numbers go up faster or not. Um, just try them. Just search idle games. Incremental games on is a very popular subreddit. Just look that up. Um, incremental games are very good. I do still think rogike deck builders are good. I just don't think you can make what I call good guys on the left, bad guys on the right games, which are basically slay the spire likes, where you just got a bunch of heroes here, and then you use cards to do this to beat this guy. There's other ways you can use deck building attacks that aren't just good guys on the left, bad guys on the right. Those that I do think that's been oversaturated, but if you're creative, you can mix it up. Um, another popular genres are actually tower defense, but they have to be tower defense plus, which is like you make a tower defense, but in order to buy new towers or to get the resources to continue to upgrade the towers, you have to do a city building component. So, those are pretty popular where you build a city and then the funds from the city and the villagers go build towers and then you have onslaught of enemies. Those are crafty buildy, citybuilder type of games, but they're more in the the tower defense genre. um those kind of like strategy games like everything Hooded Horse makes where it's like I'm building a city and I have to build resources and collect resources to make a bigger city do very well. Um again, crafty buildy and then like you were saying with the simulator, the the supermarket simulator, those simulator games I think is the most underrepresented genre that Steam has. Indies just don't make simulators for some reason. I don't know why. If you are not good at art, if you are not an artist, do not go make an RPG. I see so many people that like, we have no artists on our team. We don't even know art. I I don't know. I'm a terrible artist. And then they make an RPG, which is a very graphic intensive. You have to make so much content. Don't make an RPG if you're not an artist. Instead, I would suggest the simulation genre. Um, this is like power washer simulator, factory farm simulator, or factory simulator, or farm simulator, I should say. uh like you said that um Supermarket simulator. These are games where you basically have a job. It's maybe blue collar usually on the bluecollar side or you're managing a store or a shop and you're like upgrading and buying inventory and controlling employee, you know, you're hiring employees and controlling their wages and all that stuff. That kind of meta layer where there's lots of strategies and a lot of the art assets, if you look at these simulation games, they're kind of like asset store art in that it's like it's very basic. It's like a water bottle and it looks like a water bottle. So, those are the kind of things that really uh can do well at an indie scale, at an indie budget, especially if you don't have good art skills. Um, I think all of those are are good. And then before somebody says in the comments, I thought Chris said horror games are good. I do think horror games are still good. I still recommend everybody make a horror game even though it's not crafty. I do not consider horror games crafty. The reason horror games are still good for indies and I still recommend you should make them is because horror games can be made short. They're they're one of the few genres that Steam players are like, I like it short. I like a good, you know, 1-hour horror game. The resources aren't as required because all you got to do is you got to take some basic resources, smear blood on it, lower the lighting, and it looks good. You don't have to make a whole fantasy world with bespoke art. Most of it are set in a spooky hospital or a spooky school room. So, just download some I I'm I'm being cynical on purpose. You download some school art assets, some school room, hospital, insane asylum, castle, and then just smear blood on everything, and your art's pretty good to go. I'm only kidding a little bit. Don't at me. But those are the basic genres that do well on Steam that I would recommend devs start with. Don't start with an RPG. It's too hard. It's too complicated. FPS does well, but it requires a ton of art assets and a ton of content to make the recommended thing. And definitely don't do multiplayer. I am sorry folks, but multiplayer games, co-op is okay, but multiplayer, you need enough people to fill a lobby, and it is hard enough to get one person to play our small indie games. It is impossible to get enough simultaneous players to fill a lobby so that the games keep rolling. Okay, so those are my basic recommendations on genres. I'm sorry if I said one of your genres you're working on. I am sorry. That's what I recommend. >> That's great. I mean, it's definitely good to know that before embarking on a two-year development journey. It's definitely important to know that genre is going to be one of the biggest decisions you can make. So, yeah, definitely pick genre very carefully. So, uh I guess can you say like a super rough high level uh marketing plan for some kind of game. So, step one, pick good genre, work on it for a relatively short amount of time, then publish the coming soon page, get 2,000 wish list, then publish the demo, then get successful demo, uh get 10,000 wish list, then launch the game. Is that roughly what you would say? Are there more steps within that? Something like that? >> Yeah, there are. And so, we we were talking about this because I'm my my course is on sale uh the wish list and visibility master class. That is I lay it out sequentially the class where I give every single step on how to do this stuff cuz I'm going to go real fast. I'm going be like, "What did you just say? How did you do that?" So, the course is on sale for the summer. So, I recommend that. That has all the details. Never been cheaper. Uh not not going to be cheaper this year. So, here's the basic thing, and this is uh just a high level what people always get wrong about marketing. And I see this all the time. Like, if you reach Reddit, take your salt, put it on your tongue. Everything you read on Reddit, read it with a grain of salt. Um, a lot of things I see on Reddit is like, "Hey, I've posted my Tik Toks. I've tweeted and I've posted on Reddit and either I get banned from Reddit or nobody likes my tweets and it doesn't do anything. Marketing doesn't work. I can't do it." Well, here's the thing, folks. You don't tweet your way, you don't post your way to success. You don't post to Tik Tok and have success most of the time. You don't post to Reddit and have success most of the time. You don't tweet. It's not what you do interfacing with users, with customers. It's the secondary effect. It's curators. You have to go to curators and get curators to show your game. You don't need a big audience like Mr. Monkey here. Yes, he's got a great YouTube channel. That is not necessary. I see that also like I I don't have a a big YouTube channel. One, you're probably watching too much YouTube for the fans out there because I see a lot of people who watch a lot of YouTube say like they look at these creators with huge audiences, 100 thousand subscribers to their YouTube channel and they're like, "Well, I don't have that. That's the necessary thing for games." No, no, no, my friends. There are lots of games and this these people have zero social influence. They have no followers anywhere. You do not need a following. You do not need to be big on social media. You don't have to have a big YouTube channel. I'm going to be real honest on this. I most people should not have a YouTube channel. Okay, Mr. Monkey here, you should definitely have a YouTube channel. Awesome YouTube channel. Way to go. Here's how you do it with no money, no following. Okay, you need to reach out to people with a big audience. Okay, so right genre, then you make a really good 30 secondond trailer and you reach out to like IGN. You reach out to big influencers. Just search top trailers, all those things. Reach out to all those people. say, "I've got I'm announcing a new game coming up soon. Here's my game." You give them that trailer. See, you're reaching out to other people to get that game. See? And they share your game for you. You don't do it yourself. That's the big thing that people miss. They think they have to tweet or Reddit post or YouTube post their way to success. You get other people to do it for you. So, after you do that, that doesn't always work for everybody. That's okay. You're now in the dead zone. You don't have a demo out. All you got is your Steam page and maybe a trailer. You get through this period as fast as you can. You get that play test up. And again, when you've got a play test, you reach out to all the influencers who play your type of game and you give that play test out and you say, "Would you like to play my game on your stream and if you've got a good game in a good genre, they will play it on their stream. People follow your play test and then you fix your play test because it always sucks." And then you make another one and you do another play test and another play test and then when it's good you make that demo and then you publish the demo. But before that you reach out to all those influencers again. I'm talking thousands. We're talking thousands of influencers. Too many people say, "Yeah, I reached out to so many influencers, like 20 of them. Reached out to like 20 influencers." No, we're talking thousands of influencers you need to reach out to. So you reach out to those thousand influencers. Hopefully your demo's good. Don't make a bad demo, make a good demo. And then those those influencers play your demo over and over and it goes viral hopefully and you get hundreds and thousands of wish lists. Then you enter into NextFest. Boom. Oh, you also do festivals before NextFest. I've got a how toarketame.com/festivals. We keep track of every festival that's happening. You apply because those are influential people with big audiences who run those festivals. So you give your game to the festival and say, "Would you like to play my game?" And those festival organizers say, "This is a good game. I'm going to show this to my audience." You see, you are not tweeting. You are not Reddit posting. You get somebody else to do it for you. You get those festival organization organizations to do it for you. That's the secret, folks. It's somebody else's audience. So, they take it, they put it on the front page festival. Boom. And then it goes get all those wish lists. This is where people are like, "But I tried it and it didn't work." This is where you have to make the game in the right genre. It has to look good. It has to be fun. Don't make a bad game because if it's a bad game or one that's in a genre that nobody likes on Steam, the festival organization organizers are going to look at all those games and like, well, this game doesn't have very good graphics or it's not in a genre anybody likes and they throw it over their shoulder and they pick one that does. And that's that's why you have to have that good game and you have to be aware of what genres do well on Steam. So, you go through all that, you do Steam NextFest and then don't launch immediately after NextFest because everybody does it the first week after NextFest. I can see the spike. I've done the analysis. Search my blog for the gap. I call it the gap because there's a gap between Steam NextFest and the Steam sales like summer sale or whatnot. People always try and launch in that gap. Do not do that. Everybody had the same idea that you did. They all think I got hype in NextFest. I should launch right after NextFest because I've got hype. There is no hype, folks. Everybody's got hype because they just came out of NextFest. Don't launch those days after NextFest and then launch sometime after that. It can be a week, a month, two months, three months after NextFest and then launch. Okay, so that's what I'd recommend. That's how you market a game. And then if it does well, it does well and you can do daily deals and all that kind of stuff. If it does poorly, say, I tried my best, maybe update it one time and move on. I did an analysis that I found if you do not hit 100 reviews in the first month, there's no hope. I I want to be as positive as possible, but I found that there was one game, one game that did not have a hundred reviews in the first month that later went on to sell well. One game. It was called Beltmatic. There was only one game. I don't want to be mad at you. I don't want to make you feel bad, but there was one game that did it. So, my recommendation is if you don't hit that 100red views in the first month, and that is not a causation, that is just correlation because 100 views ties to that. Don't try and game your numbers. say, "Oh, Chris, how do I get fake 100 reviews?" It's not that. It's a correlated to sales. Reviews are correlated to sales. So, if you get enough sales to warrant 100 reviews, that's good. If you don't, >> cut bait, move on, make your next game, make your next game, make your next game. It's not going to happen right away, folks. It takes lots of games over time. So, make small games very fast, and go for it. So, good luck out there. >> That is awesome. And yeah, definitely I'm a big fan of that advice. So yeah, I hope everyone watching this will follow that advice and I hope everyone has learned quite a lot from this video. I know that I've learned a lot myself. So yeah, is there anything else you'd like to share or is there anywhere where people can go to learn quite a bit more about marketing in a more condensed manner? >> Yeah. So like I said, that was a lot that that that ramble that I just went and there's a lot of deals. How do I reach how do I find these festivals? How do I apply for festivals? All that stuff in the course. I go step by step like it is letter by letter how to do all this stuff. Okay. timing, which one to do, when to do this, when to not do this. That's in my course. Um, we're working on a special deal with Mr. Monkey here. Mr. Monkey and I are promoting this together because we both believe indie should have good marketing. So, if you buy it through uh the link down below, uh I'm sharing the the success here with Mr. Monkey. We both get a cut. So, it's a great way to support the Monkey channel, the Code Monkey. Um so, do all that. Go through there. It gives you step by step and I I offer a no questions asked full refund. So if you're ever like Chris, I bought it but you didn't tell me this, I will give you a refund within 30 days. So if you're like on the fence because this sale ends August 4th. So if you if as long as you do it before uh what would be August September September, you just email me and say, "Chris, I'd like a refund. You don't even have to tell me why. You don't even have to yell at me. I'll just give you the refund." So there's no no risk. Um, this is version three. I updated it with everything I just talked about it. You know, all the Steam algorithm changing and all that stuff. It's all updated to reflect the latest of the algorithm. I'm still updating it all the time. So, if you buy it, you will get updates forever. You will know how to update a Steam page in the year 2080 because I'll be still updating this course. Even if you bought it in the year 2025, I will still be giving you permission to uh updates for the rest of time. So, I hope you take that on. If you just want to read the blog, how to market aame.com is uh my website updated every single week with new content about people who have done well with games and what it takes to do well in the algorithm. So that is my story. Thank you so much for watching. >> All right, that's awesome. So yeah, and I've been reading the blog post myself since 2018. I've definitely learned a lot. The course is awesome. So yeah, definitely recommend anyone who wants to get more wish list, get more sales, find more success with their games. I definitely recommend it. So yeah, thank you so much Chris >> and support the monkey >> of course >> your channel too. >> So yeah, thank you so much Chris. Thanks for being here. Thanks for sharing all the knowledge with everyone. Thank you. >> Great talking to you. Thank you Hugo. >> You can check out the other free videos that I did with Chris with tons more marketing knowledge. And like I said, if you want to get all that knowledge condensed into one single place, then the summer sale that he's running on his course is a great deal. And if you want to learn more on the technical side of making games, I'm also running a summer bundle on my own courses. So right now is a great time for you to learn everything from the technical aspect to marketing. Check it out through the link in the description.